MRI uses magnetic fields and radio waves to visualize detailed images of organs,soft tissues,bones,ligaments and cartilage. 
An important area of study in the realm of MR image processing has been MR image de-noising. Field intensity, RF pulses, RF coil, 
voxel volume, or receiver bandwidth may all contribute to the noise in MRI images. Rician noise, Gaussian noise, and Rayleigh noise
make up the majority of the noise in MRI pictures. 

Gaussian noise is statistical noise having a probability density function (PDF) equal to the normal distribution. However, when the SNR magnitude 
in MR images is greater than 2, then Rician distribution, transforms to Gaussian noise distribution and when SNR is approaching zero it converges to 
Rayleigh distribution. 

Electronic interferences in receiver circuits, radio frequency emissions resulting from the thermal mobility of ions in the patient’s body, and the measurement 
chain of MRI scanners, including coils, electronic circuits, etc. are the main causes of noise in MRI images. Due to signal-dependent data bias, noise in MRI 
results in random oscillations that lower image contrast. The presence of noise in medical imaging has a direct or indirect impact that makes rapid diagnosis, 
analysis, and therapy more challenging. 

A highly accurate brain image is a prerequisite for error free diagnosis. Image acquisition techniques expose patients to very high radiation. 
Since decreasing the radiation is important for the safety of patients, the acquired images are prone to more noise. Hence denoising of medical images are of 
utmost importance in the field of medicine. 

A Convolutional Denoising Autoencoder(CDAE) for is capable of removing noise from these images. Convolutional autoencoders are capable of retaining the spatial
information of the input image and gently extract the the data without much loss. Image denoising is a common issue in computer vision and has been thoroughly
researched by academics. Various denoising techniques have been adopted in the past few years. The choice of a denoising technique strongly depends on the available data
and the application. 

A lot of work has been done on MRI denoising such as Median filter, Wiener filter, Average filter, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Wavelet Thresholding, 
Independent Component Analysis (ICA) and Topographic ICA,NLM (non-local means) ,LRTV (low-rank and total variation) etc.
For many real-world problems requiring digital image processing, deep learningbased techniques have proven to be the most effective answers. They have also been
used as a natural substitute for non-learning dependent filters and prior knowledgebased denoising algorithms. Such learning-based strategies are less influenced by
the non-linear properties of noise generation processes. These include Denoising AutoEncoder (DAE), Noise2Noise, Noise2Void, and GANs. These techniques make
the use of Convolutional Neural Networks(CNN), which take advantage of the spatially structured information in medical images.
